This is perhaps the feature you have been interested to know about.

Subspaces (or subsystems) are isolated linux distribution environments that you can access and experiment in,
it offers choices such as NixOS, Debian, Arch Linux, Void Linux, Gentoo, Fedora and Opensuse.

Subspaces allow the user to have GUI support, start a GUI application inside the debian subspace, and it'll be forwarded
to Haliade, the app will think it's running on debian, but it's running on Haliade, with full GPU accelaration.

All subspaces are isolated and do not conflict with one-another, you can for example have multiple instances
of the same application (like discord) running on each distro, and they will not conflict with one another
because they are all isolated.

All subspaces are isolated at the "/subspace" directory.

The subspace feature offers you multiple tools :

-- subspace-cli (what you use to install and remove subspaces)
-- subspace-enter (to enter a subspace)
-- subspace-run (run a specific command inside a subspace)
-- subspace-sync (synchronize subspaces (mostly for apps to show in your menu))
-- subspace-merge (allows you to merge packages from other distros, learn more in merging section)

All this, by taking no extra memory usage.

subspace-cli's help prompt sumnarizes how they work :

Usage: subspace-cli [options] <command> [args]

Options:
  --disposable          Install, enter, and auto-remove on exit (with install)
  --setdisplay <display> Set display for GUI support (e.g. :0, wayland-0)
  --pass                Skip confirmation prompts (for declarative use)

Commands:
  install <distro> [distro...]    Install one or more subspaces
  remove  <distro> [distro...]    Remove one or more installed subspaces
  list                            List installed subspaces

Now you know how to use a subspace.

You can declare what subspaces you want installed and what is included in each of them inside the system definition.

(This is basically Haliade's version of WSL, except more lightweight, and more efficient.)

