This is the most complex and most interesting feature of the OS itself.
So let me sumnarize it for you :

Merging is a part of the subspace feature, it allows you to "merge" a package from a subspace.
for example, you can install a window manager via arch's subspace onto Haliade OS itself.

This works with a very clever trick.

Using the package manager of the selected subspace, we trick it into downloading onto the Haliade system instead of it's container.

This is incredibly dangerous to do, as package managers can conflict with ownership (some package managers are very strict about ownership of directories as a security feature, and rightfully so), and this is why we recommend users to download official haliade packages and only merge at their own risk.

Why merging is dangerous is due that it can overwrite important system components and directories (such as glibc) and make the system unusable to use, which is why generations are created before every package merge.
You can bypass this with the "--no-generation" flag, but it is not recommended unless you are testing inside a live environment of Haliade OS.

Some distros, such as alpine, gentoo or nixos are not possible to merge due to the following :

Alpine : musl instead of glibc
Gentoo : requires source based compiling
NixOS : weird filesystem architecture

The other distros listed are possible to merge to the system.

As always, merging provides 2 toolsets :

-- merged-packages-update : allows you to update packages you merged
-- subspace-merge : allows you to merge packages from a subspace.

the subspace-merge help summarizes this :

Usage: subspace-merge [options] <distro> [package]

Merge packages from a subspace onto the host system using the distro's native
package manager, running against the host root.

Commands:
  subspace-merge <distro>                Merge all declared merged-<distro> packages
  subspace-merge <distro> <package>      Merge a specific package
  subspace-merge --list                  List all merged packages across all distros
  subspace-merge --list <distro>         List merged packages for a specific distro

Options:
  --pass             Skip confirmation prompts (for declarative use)
  --no-generation    Do not create a rollback generation before merging.
                     Use when the caller already creates one (haliade-synchronize
                     creates a 'post-sync' generation when it finishes).
                     Also required on a non-btrfs filesystem, where chronos
                     cannot snapshot at all. Note that it removes the only
                     thing a bad merge can be undone with.

Merging is optional and experimental. Prefer a native Haliade package wherever
one exists. A merge can replace host files and break the system, so
overwriting existing files is permitted and a rollback generation is taken
first unless --no-generation is given.

Supported distros: arch, debian, fedora, opensuse, void
Musl distros (alpine) cannot be merged.

same thing for merged-packages-update :

Usage: merged-packages-update [options] <distro|all>

Update the packages that were merged onto the host from subspaced distros, by
running each distro's package manager against the host root. Nothing is
installed into the subspace.

Commands:
  merged-packages-update <distro>    Update merged packages from one distro
  merged-packages-update all         Update merged packages from every
                                     installed subspace

Options:
  --pass             Skip the confirmation prompt (for declarative use)
  --no-generation    Do not create a rollback generation before updating.
                     Required on a non-btrfs filesystem, where chronos
                     cannot snapshot at all. Also use when the caller
                     already creates its own generation.

Merging is optional and experimental. Prefer a native Haliade package wherever
one exists. Updating can replace host libraries and break the system, which is
why a rollback generation is taken first unless --no-generation is given.

You can also declare packages you want to merge and from which distro inside the system definition.

Now you know how merging pretty much works and why it's a fun feature despite it being destructive.
